Trump Tariffs Live Updates: Asian markets rebound after Trump announces 90-day pause on tariffs amid global pushback
Trump Tariffs Impact Live Updates: China has been excluded from the pause, and instead, the tariff rate has been increased to 125%.



By: Express Web Desk Updated: April 10, 2025 11:09 IST
trump tariff chinaPresident Donald Trump holds a signed executive order in the Oval Office of the White House, in Washington. (Pool via AP)
Trump Tariffs News Live Updates: Amid global pushback, US President Donald Trump announced a 90-day pause on tariffs, however, China has been excluded from the pause, and instead, the tariff rate has been increased to 125%. The Asian markets bounced back on Thursday after President Trump announced the pause on tariff. Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 index shot up 8%, South Korea’s Kospi index was up more than 5% and Australia’s ASX 200 was also up by 5% during early hours of trading.

Trade War: After Donald Trump imposed 125 per cent tariff on Chinese goods, Beijing announced ‘countermeasures’ and said that it would not bow down to the “tax blackmail” by the US administration. China also announced that it was imposing 84 per cent tariff on US goods which has escalated trade tensions between the US and China. Trump has accused foreign countries of levying harsh duties on American products and “plundering” the US economy.

Markets Skyrocket: The US stock market rallied sharply on Wednesday (April 9), reversing earlier jitters driven by President Donald Trump’s escalating trade war. As of early morning IST, the Dow Jones was up 2,962.97 points, or 7.87%, at 40,608.56. The Nasdaq Composite soared 1,867.06 points, or 12.16%, to 17,124.97, while the S&P 500 climbed 474.93 points, or 9.53%, to 5,456.20. The rally came after Trump announced 90-day tariff pause for all countries except for China. Huge swings have become routine for financial markets worldwide recently, not just day to day but hour to hour, as investors struggle to game out what Trump’s trade war will do to the economy.

Live Updates
11:09 (IST) 10 Apr 2025
Trump Tariffs Live Updates: Thai consumer confidence hits 5-month low in March on tariff concerns
Thai consumer confidence dropped for a second straight month in March to hit its lowest level in five months due to higher living costs, sluggish economic growth and concern over U.S. trade tariffs, a survey showed on Thursday. The consumer index of the University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce fell to 56.7 in March from 57.8 in February, the university said in a statement. "It's clear that the fallen confidence index was driven by the trade war, which may cause problems for Thai exports and tourism and slow economic recovery," university president Thanavath Phonvichai told a press conference.

Thailand is among the countries in Southeast Asian nations hardest hit by US President Donald Trump's measures, with a much bigger than expected 36% tariff. However, a 90-day pause on the US tariffs announced overnight will give officials more time to prepare a response. Trump said he would temporarily lower the hefty duties he had just imposed on dozens of countries, while further ramping up pressure on China.

Thanavath said if Thailand could negotiate to bring the tariffs down to 10%, the damage could be around 100 billion baht to 150 billion baht ($2.93 billion-$4.40 billion), lowering growth by 0.7 to 0.9 percentage points. When the 36% tariff was announced last week, Finance Minister Pichai Chunhavajira said it could cut growth in Southeast Asia's second-largest economy by 1 percentage point. The economy grew just 2.5% last year, lagging regional peers. Thailand has said it would increase imports from the United States and cut tariffs as it seeks to negotiate a better deal.

(Reuters)

10:51 (IST) 10 Apr 2025
Trump Tariffs Live Updates: India eyes quick trade deal with US amid tariff pause, official says
India wants to move quickly on a trade deal with the United States, a government official said, after President Donald Trump's stunning decision to pause hefty reciprocal tariffs he had just imposed on dozens of countries, except for China. "The 90-day pause on reciprocal tariffs is a relief for Indian exporters, especially shrimp exporters," said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.

(Reuters)

10:11 (IST) 10 Apr 2025
Trump Tariffs Live Updates: Japan nominates ex-Mitsubishi Corp executive Masu to BOJ board
The Japanese government on Thursday nominated Kazuyuki Masu, a former chief financial officer of trading house Mitsubishi Corp, to join the central bank's nine-member policy board. Masu would replace former Hitachi executive Toyoaki Nakamura, seen as among the most dovish members of the central bank's board. If formally approved by parliament, 66-year-old Masu would begin his five-year term on July 1, as Nakamura serves out his term a day before.

He will fill a post traditionally reserved for a business executive on the Bank of Japan board, which comprises academics, economists, career bureaucrats and senior officials from the finance and corporate sectors. Masu joined Mitsubishi in 1982 and mainly served finance and accounting positions at the trading house. He retired as CFO in 2022. He is currently a council member of the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants.

The appointment comes as Trump's decision to impose sweeping tariffs worldwide, including on Japan, complicates the BOJ's plan to continue raising interest rates from still-low levels. The BOJ exited a radical stimulus programme in March last year and raised interest rates to 0.25% in July and to 0.5% in January on the view that Japan was on the cusp of sustainably achieving its 2% inflation target. Nakamura voted against the BOJ's decision to end negative rates and the two rate hikes, due to concerns over the potential damage to small and mid-sized firms. His departure follows the appointment in March of Junko Koeda, an academic known as a fiscal and monetary hawk who succeeded another dovish member, tipping the board increasingly in favour of steady rate hikes.

(Reuters)

09:42 (IST) 10 Apr 2025
Trump Tariffs Live Updates: US inflation likely slowed in March, but tariff pressures loom
Inflation likely eased in March, with falling energy, used car, and hotel prices expected to pull consumer price growth down to 2.6% from 2.8% in February, according to FactSet estimates. Core inflation, excluding food and energy, is seen at 3%, down from 3.1%. Though cooling, inflation remains above the Federal Reserve’s 2% target. Core prices are forecast to rise 0.3% month-over-month—still too high for the Fed’s comfort. Tariffs could soon reverse the trend. President Donald Trump recently paused sweeping duties on 60 nations for 90 days but left in place a 10% universal tariff and 25% duties on steel, aluminum, cars, and many goods from Canada, Mexico, and China.

Tariffs on Chinese imports have risen to 125% after retaliation. Consumers may soon feel the impact. The US imports over $60 billion worth of phones and vast quantities of clothing, shoes, and toys from China. Though companies have started shifting supply chains away from China, the process is costly and slow. “There’s a lot of waiting and seeing going on, including by us,” said Fed Chair Jerome Powell, signaling interest rates will stay near 4.3% for now. “That just seems like the right thing to do in this period of uncertainty.”

(With inputs AP)

09:33 (IST) 10 Apr 2025
Trump Tariffs Live Updates: Global trade war may produce headwinds for nascent AI sector, IEA says
An escalating global tariff war could provide challenges for the emerging data centre sector and cause slower growth, Laura Cozzi, the International Energy Agency (IEA) Director of Technology told Reuters. The US, China and the European Union together are set to account by 2030 for 80% of the forecast growth in data centre demand growth, which is expected to be dominated by Artificial Intelligence (AI) use, the IEA said in a report on Thursday.

The report's headwind scenario "encompasses many of the things we are seeing - slower economic growth, more tariffs in more countries, so indeed yes (the current tariff environment) is a scenario in which AI would see a slower growth than what we see in our base case," Cozzi said. Global electricity consumption from data centres is expected to rise to around 945 terawatt hours (TWh) by 2030 in the IEA's base case scenario, but the "headwind scenario" would see that drop to 670 TWh, IEA data showed.

In the United States, data centres are expected to account for nearly half of electricity demand growth between now and 2030, and the country is expected to lead in data centre development globally, according to IEA data. US electricity utilities have been fielding massive requests for new capacity that would exceed their peak demand or existing generation capacity, raising concerns that tech companies are approaching multiple power utility providers, inflating the demand outlook. The report aims to work with tech companies and industry to make sense of the real queue for data centres, which is ultimately going to be essential for AI to get the electricity it needs, Cozzi said.

Strain on grids could also lead to project delays, with about 20% of planned data centre projects at risk. Demand for transmission lines and critical grid and generation equipment are in high demand, reflecting this risk, the IEA report said. Some 50% of data centres under development in the United States are in pre-existing large clusters, potentially raising risks of local bottlenecks, it said.

(Reuters)

09:17 (IST) 10 Apr 2025
Trump Tariffs Live Updates: China's yuan falls to weakest since financial crisis on intensifying trade tension
China's yuan on Thursday fell to its lowest value against the US dollar since the global financial crisis, with the central bank cutting guidance for the sixth successive trading session against a backdrop of intensifying Sino-US trade tension. The country has imposed steep tariffs on US imports in response to similar US action. Though US President Donald Trump said he would temporarily lower duties recently imposed on dozens of countries, he increased those on China goods. "The US and China are currently in a powerplay game of brinkmanship," said ING global head of markets Chris Turner. "Until a deal is announced or a big, bilateral meeting confirmed, USD/CNY will now be the focal attention of the FX market."

